<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>External Resources</title>
<link href="../Styles/metatext.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h2>External Resources</h2>


<p>
This Compendium is at it's early stages of development,
and as such is very lacking in breadth.
What it does cover, it covers with attention to
certain criteria previously neglected - however,
it doesn't yet cover very much.
As such, to make up for this deficit, this section
of the Compendium is to
provide links to external resources for the research
on fallacies.
Not only can this help compensate for it's deficit
in breadth - but even in the future, when this Compendium
is more complete, it still won't hurt to have other
sources to refer to.
</p>

<p>
Unfortunately, no such links can be provided to
external links for malconducts - because (to the
authorship's knowledge) the mere fact that malconducts
are discussed as a category is one of the new
innovations of this particular Compendium.
</p>

<h3>Listings of Fallacies</h3>

<div class = "extresrc">
<div class = "extres_name">
Logical fallacies at Rational Wiki
</div>
<div class = "extres_link">
<a href = "https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Logical_fallacy" target = "_blank" rel="noopener">https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Logical_fallacy</a>
</div>
<div class = "extres_dscrip">
This is the article on Rational Wiki about logical fallacies.
In this article, there is a section that lists and links to
the specific fallacies listed in said wiki.
</div>
</div>

<h3>On Cognitive Biases</h3>

<div class = "extresrc">
<div class = "extres_name">
Your Bias Is
</div>
<div class = "extres_link">
<a href = "https://yourbias.is/" target = "_blank" rel="noopener">https://yourbias.is/</a>
</div>
<div class = "extres_dscrip">
A nice, online compendium of cognitive biases.
</div>
</div>


</body></html>
