<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Straw Man Fallacy</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Straw Man Fallacy</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--flc.xhtml">Fallacies</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>



<p>
The <span class = "voca">Straw Man Fallacy</span> is committed by someone who instead of
addressing the actual argument or claim that another
made, instead addresses a caricature of that argument.
</p>

<p>
The Straw Man Fallacy can be divided between the
Lesser Straw Man Fallacy and the Classic Straw Man Fallacy.
</p>

<p>
The <span class = "voca">Lesser Straw Man Fallacy</span>
is when someone is reckless in their assumption about
the other's argument. Their guess about the other's
argument may be correct, but if that's so, it's due
to dumb luck, rather than sound reasoning on their own part.
</p>

<p>
The <span class = "voca">Classic Straw Man Fallacy</span>
is a deliberate distortion of the other's arguments.
It is named "Classic" because it is closest to the Straw Man Fallacy as
described in traditional sources.
</p>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<p>
To determine whether or not the person suspected of
committing the Straw Man Fallacy <span class = "lbset">Person A</span>
did in fact do so:
</p>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s01x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Does <span class = "lbuse">Person A</span> present as
knowing for fact that the argument or claim that zie is addressing
<span class = "lbset">Justification C</span>
is indeed the one made by the other <span class = "lbset">Party B</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s02x">Proceed to Step 2</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<span class = "lbuse">Person A</span> is in the clear.
This is a hypothetical reputation - and at least on
this particular account, cogent.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s02x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 2
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Has <span class = "lbuse">Person A</span> verified
whether or not <span class = "lbuse">Justification C</span>
is indeed the argument or claim made by <span class = "lbuse">Party B</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s03x">Proceed to Step 3</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This is a case of the <span class = "voca">Lesser Straw Man Fallacy</span>.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s03x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 3
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is <span class = "lbuse">Justification C</span> indeed
the argument or claim made by <span class = "lbuse">Party B</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
In the clear
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This is a case of the <span class = "voca">Classic Straw Man Fallacy</span>.
</div>
</div>
</div>


<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
