<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Appeal to Authority Fallacy</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Appeal to Authority Fallacy</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--flc.xhtml">Fallacies</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
This isn't really a singar fallacy, but a category of
fallacies - some of which are commonly referred to
by the name of the category, others of which are not.
</p>

<h5>Appeal to Invalid Authority Fallacy</h5>

<p>
Generally, when one refers to a fallacy known as "Appeal to Authority",
they are referring to what, for precision sake, should better be
referred to as <span class = "voca">Appeal to Invalid Authority</span>.
This is when the word of a person of group is treated as an
authoritative word on a given subject - when in reality
that person or group has no special expertise on the relevant
subject.
Their lack of expertise on the relevant subject may be because
the party in question has valid expertise, but on a substantially different
subject - or it may be due to the party in question having no special
expertise at all.
All that matters, however, is not whether or not the party
has expertise on a substantially different subject, but
the mere fact that the party in question does not have
special expertise on the particular subject relevant to the claim
being made.
</p>

<h5>Appeal to Excessive Authority Fallacy</h5>

<p>
Not generally referred to to by this name, but possibly
also under the "Appeal to Authority" header is another
fallacy that should be referred to as the
<span class = "voca">Appeal to Excessive Authority Fallacy</span>.
This is because the authority in question does indeed have
special expertise in the subject at hand - however,
the degree of confidence that is placed in what that
authority says is excessive.
One form of this fallacy might be treating the views of one
valid expert in a relevant field with the level of confidence
that is only properly given to the consensus of the community
of experts as a whole.
</p>

<p>
Another form of this fallacy might be treating an uncertain
prediction from a valid and relevant expert as though it
were absolutely certain and infallible.
One form of that fallacy (so well known that it has
been the butt of many a joke) is treating a meteorologist's
prediction of the weather as definitive and incapable of being
wrong.
Make no mistake, the weather predictions of a meteoroligist
are a far cry more reliable than the weather predictions of
a Ouija board - but it is common knowledge that even
predictions labeled "100% chance" can be wrong.
</p>

<p>
This is not unique to meteorology, though, but to science
in in general.
Still -- it should be known that though the predictions
of science are not infallbile,
that is not an excuse to disregard science,
nor is it an excuse to favor over science
other explanations that by objective standards
are far less reliable than science.
</p>

<h5>Distortion of Authority Fallacy</h5>

<p>
This fallacy is committed when the authority
in question does indeed have valid special
expertise on the subject - but
the statement made by the authority is
misrepresented and/or misinterpreted.
A commission of this fallacy does not
merely treat a statement as more
definitive than it should properly be
treated as coming from the authority in question,
but actually misrepresents the contents of the
statement itself.
</p>

<p>
One famous commentary on this fallacy
is an editorial cartoon that came out
some time during the late twentieth
century in which a scientist is
shown speaking to reporters announcing
circumstantial evidence that there may
have been life on Mars a very long time ago.
The reporters respond with glee, going
bezerk over how we are not alone, but
have neighbors on Mars that may come and
visit us at any time. Below it all,
the caption reads:
"Let us hope that life on Mars is more
intelligent than life on Earth."
</p>

<p>
Of course, there is no known case in which
the Distortion of Authority Fallacy is liable
to be referred to as "Appeal to Authority" -
however, it's relation to fallacies
that might be is such that it is
appropriate to include it in that
family of fallacies.
</p>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<div class = "rzstep">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1: START HERE
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Does the authority making the claim
have valid special expertise in the
area of knowledge that covers the claim?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s02x">Proceed to step 2.</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This is an instance of the <span class = "voca">Appeal to Invalid Authority Fallacy</span>.
</div>
</div>
</div>


<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s02x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 2
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the claim that is made by the authority in question
being accurately represented and interpreted?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_b_note">
This includes expressions of uncertainty contained
in the wording of the claim itslef, unless those
expressions are mere acknowledgements of the
given authority's own inherent limitations.
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s03x">Proceed to step 3.</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This is an instance of the <span class = "voca">Distortion of Authority Fallacy</span>.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s03x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 3
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the claim in question being treated with greater confidence
than it ought to be given the limitations of the authority
that made the claim?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_b_note">
If any expressions of uncertainty in the wording of the claim
itself are indeed mere acknowledgements of tha authority's
own limitations, this is the place to take them into account.
However, absence of such wording in the claim does not
confer any level of infallibility on the claimant.
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This is an instance of the <span class = "voca">Appeal to Excessive Authority Fallacy</span>.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
You are in the clear.
None of these fallacies are being committed on this count.
This appeal to authority is in fact a cogent one.
</div>
</div>
</div>



<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
