<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Ad Hominem Fallacy</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Ad Hominem Fallacy</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--flc.xhtml">Fallacies</a></div>


<h4>General Description</h4>

<p>
The ad hominem is committed by Person B when
Person A makes an argument or claim and Person B moves
to discredit the argument by citing a
personal characterisitic of Person A that
isn't relevant to Person A's qualification
to make that argument or claim.
</p>

<p>
Though generally, it is the policy of this compendium
to prefer English names over Latin names, the term
"ad hominem" has been used sufficiently in English
context to qualify as a loan word - especially in light
of the fact that there exists no recognizable term
that is more firmly English to refer to this particular
fallacy (and to it's corresponding cogency of the same name).
</p>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<p>
For this razor sequence, <span class = "voca">Person B</span> is the
one suspected of committing the ad hominem fallacy,
and <span class = "voca">Person A</span> is the recipient of the suspectedly
fallacious argument.
<span class = "voca">Argument C</span> is to refer to the argument made
by Person A.
</p>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts00s00">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1 - Start here
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the reference to a personal characteristic
of Person A at all in the first place
part of the basis that Person B proposes
for discrediting Argument C?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Okay - then it is an ad hominem argument - but
not necessarily a fallacious one.
There is in fact a such thing as the
ad hominem cogency.
To distinguish which category this
argument falls into, <a href = "#ts01s02">proceed
to Step 2</a>.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
This isn't an ad hominem argument at all - let
alone a fallacious form thereof.
Believe it or not, there are cases that
wind up here that were accused of
the ad hominem fallacy - but in those
cases, the accusation was unwarranted.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s02">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 2
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Does Argument C hinge on any claim that the recipient
is asked to accept on the authority of Person A?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Proceed to <a href = "#ts01s03">Step 3</a>.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Then this clearly is a case of the ad-hominem
fallacy.
If Person A posits nothing on zir own authority,
then the argument must stand or fall on it's own
merit, and any attack based on personal characteristics
of Person A are irrelevant.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s03">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 3
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the characteristic of Person A that is
referenced to discredit Argument C relevant
to Person A's authority and/or trustworthiness
to make whatever
claims in the argument rest on Person A's
own authority?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
No - this isn't a case of the ad hominem fallacy.
Rather, it is a case of the ad hominem cogency,
which is a valid pattern of reasoning.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Then this is indeed a case of the ad hominem
fallacy.
</div>
</div>
</div>




<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
