<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Argument from Ignorance Fallacy</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Argument from Ignorance Fallacy</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--flc.xhtml">Fallacies</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
The <span class = "voca">Argument from Ignorance Fallacy</span> is
when one proposition is accepted as true based too heavily on the
mere premise that its negation hasn't been proven.
</p>

<p>
This pattern of reasoning is flawed because if neither a proposition
nor its negation have been proven, the reality is that don't
know which one is true and which one is false.
</p>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s01x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the person suspected of committing the fallacy
<span class = "lbset">Person A</span>
asserting that one position <span class = "lbset">Proposition B</span>
is true based on the premise that it's negation
<span class = "lbset">Proposition C</span>
hasn't been proven?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s015x">Proceed to Step 1.5</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
In the clear.
This argument doesn't even have the
most rudimentary form in common
with the fallacy in question.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s015x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1.5
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the argument based on the assertion that
the nature <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>
is such that, were it true, proof would be forthcoming?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Further Razors Pending.
There is indeed a valid form of argumentation along
such lines.
However, it must be examined whether or not this
argument meets the requirement for that form of
argumentation.
When the entry on that form of argumentation is ready,
a link will be added here to that entry so that the
razor-scheme in that entry can be followed.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s02x">Proceed to Step 2</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s02x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 2
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is there actual foundation to support <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s03x">Proceed to Step 3</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
As a matter of fact, this is probably
the most cut-and-dry variant of this
fallacy possible.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s03x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 3
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Has the <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>'s
foundation <span class = "lbset">Foundation D</span>
been properly established?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s04x">Proceed to Step 4</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
This is indeed an instance of the fallcy
in question.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s04x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 4
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Has the validity of the argument leading
from <span class = "lbuse">Foundation D</span>
to <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>
<span class = "lbset">Argument E</span>
been properly verified?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s05x">Proceed to Step 5</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
Until <span class = "lbuse">Argument E</span>
has been properly verified,
<span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span> can
not be accepted as true.
Jumping that gun simply because
<span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span> hasn't
been proven either definitely counts as an
invocation of this fallacy.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s05x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 5
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Does <span class = "lbuse">Argument E</span>,
upon verification, qualify as conclusive proof
of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>
or merely a case in favor of
<span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If it constitutes conclusive proof
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s08x">Proceed to Step 8</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If it merely constitutes a case in favor
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s06x">Proceed to Step 6</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s06x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 6
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is there a counter-case in favor of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
Both Propositions have arguments in their favor - but neither is proven.
To treat one argument as conclusive simply because the other isn't
is definitely the kind of double-standard that this fallacy label covers.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s07x">Proceed to Step 7</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s07x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 7
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the lack of proof of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>
used as an excuse to express a greater degree of confidence
in <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>
than <span class = "lbuse">Argument E</span> warrants?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
Yes - it is to a lesser degree, but still guilty.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
In the clear.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s08x">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 8
</div>
<div class = "rzs_preexp">
So it seems that you have conclusive proof of
<span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>.
This means that, hypothetically, if you also
appeared to have conclusive proof
of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>
that there would have to have been some
flaw in proof (either the proof of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition B</span>,
the proof of <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>, or
both proofs) that somehow slipped through all previous efforts at
scrutiny.
</div>
<div class = "rzs_preexp">
Such a sanity-check can not serve as a substitute for scrutinizing
proofs as well as humanly possible.
However, if scrutiny has been done with all due vigilance, such a
sanity-check may be done as one additional measure.
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Is the sanity-check here described the reason for
noting that <span class = "lbuse">Proposition C</span>
hasn't been proven?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
In the clear -
provided, of course, that this sanity-check is in
addition to other due vigilance in scrutinizing proofs
and not instead of it.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Guilty as charged.
The fallacy has indeed been committed - and the fact
that the fallacy so-happens to lead to a true conclusion
doesn't change that.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
