<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Introduction</title>
<link href="../Styles/metatext.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h2>Introduction</h2>

<p>
The Discursive Compendium of Fallacies and Malconducts
is the heart and soul of the Rules of Discourse projects.
The other documents put out by the early efforts of the
project, which focused on procedural guidelines, have
been demonstrated by testing to be of lesser importance
than the Compendium, and may even be phased out entirely
in the near future.
</p>

<p>
As work began in the Rules of Discourse project,
it became clear very early on that a compendium
of fallacies would be needed.
As the project of building a Compendium of
Fallacies moved on, it became eventually clear
that fallacies were only one of four categories
that needed to be covered in this compendium.
However, it's title remained "Discursive
Compendium of Fallacies" until 2018-03-19,
when it's name was changed to "Discursive
Compendium of Fallacies and Malconducts".
</p>

<p>
The other three categories are given names that
are either partially or fully coined in the development
of this compendium and of the Rules of Discourse.
These categories are <span class = "vocab">cogencies</span>,
<span class = "vocab">malconducts</span>, and
<span class = "vocab">bonconducts</span>.
</p>

<p>
A cogency is the opposite of a fallacy.
Both fallacies and cogencies are patterns of reasoning -
but fallacies are flawed patterns, while cogencies
are valid, logically sound patterns of reasoning.
</p>

<p>
A malconduct is a pattern of behavior that is
unconducive to proper discourse.
A malconduct differs from a fallacy in that
a fallacy is a pattern of reasoning, while
a malconduct is a pattern of behavior.
Adding a category to the compendium for
malconducts was deemed necessary because,
historically, some malconducts (such as Appeal
to Force) were mis-labeled as fallacies for
lack of a malconduct category - while other
malconcuts (such as the Homework Malconduct)
never were properly documented at all.
</p>

<p>
In French, "mal" is the term for "bad",
and "bon" is the term for "good".
Therefore, I replaced the prefix "mal" in "malconduct"
with the prefix "bon" to form the term "bonconduct".
As you may guess, a bonconduct relates to a malconduct
the same way that a cogency relates to a fallacy.
</p>

<h3>Why Write a New Compendium?</h3>

<p>
While the Discursive Compendium of Fallacies and Malconducts
is the official compendium for use with the Rules
of Discourse, there is no requirement (or even
any suggestion) to use it exclusively.
There are several other compendia out there
which are very useful.
</p>

<p>
That said, while existing compendia are useful,
they leave much to be desired.
Their taxonomy is a hoj-poj with little or no
rhyme or reason.
Redundancies abound - or at least many obscure
fallacies are listed in ways that make it difficult
to distinguish them from other, similar fallacies.
What's worse - often they aren't sufficiently explicit
about how to resolve disputes about whether or not a
particular fallacy has been committed in the first place.
</p>

<p>
It is for this reason that a priority will be made,
for each entry in this compendium, to develop and
include a set of <span class = "vocab">razors</span>
- questions and tests for resolving the distinction
between potentially confusing patterns of reason
or patterns of behavior --- distinctions that can
potentially make the difference between a cogency
and a fallacy, or between a bonconduct and a malconduct.
At very least, it can help put the appropriate label
on a flawed pattern.
</p>

<p>
This compendium is still in it's early stages
of development.
However, hopefully, when it gets to be a bit more
complete, it will address these shortcomings.
</p>

<h3 id = "latest_version">Resources on This Compendium</h3>

<p>
This compendium is maintained via a GIT repository
<a href = "https://github.com/rules-of-discourse/dsc-compendium-of-fallacies" target="_blank" rel="noopener">which can be found on GitHub</a>.
</p>

<p>
This compendium is also available <a href = "http://files.virtualstoa.org/rules-of-discourse/compendium/Text/" target = "_blank" rel="noopener">in
an onlinine web-browsable format</a>.
</p>

<p>
Finally, this compendium is available <a href = "http://files.virtualstoa.org/rules-of-discourse/compendium/ebooks/" target = "_blank" rel="noopener">available to download as an ebbok in either EPUB of MOBI format</a>.
</p>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "maintoc.xhtml">Return to Main Table of Contents</a></div>

</body></html>
