<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Crying Wolf Malconduct</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Crying Wolf Malconduct</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--mal.xhtml">Malconducts</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
The Crying Wolf Malconduct is the malconduct
that is committed by someone when zie wrongfully
levies an accusation of a fallacy or a malconduct
having been committed.
</p>

<p>
Crying Wolf is a very harmful malconduct.
When someone Cries Wolf, zie squanders the resources
of the group or zir discussion partner in the effort
to refute the bogus assertion.
Risk is in incurred that a solid argument
might be held in wrongful doubt
or even be wrongfully struck down.
Furthermore, the one who Cries Wolf damages
zir credibility, which can have other adverse
consequences on when zir credibility is needed -
such as if zie has occasion to call attention
to a true instance of a fallacy or malconduct
being committed.
</p>

<p>
Quite possibly the most common form of this malconduct
is an accusation of the Ad Hominem fallacy in situations
where the criterion for any form of Argumentum ad Homenim
haven't been met,
let alone the fallacious form thereof.
</p>


<h4>Origin of the Name</h4>

<p>
This malconduct derives its name from a famous
Aesop fable about a shepherd boy who,
either craving attention or wishing to commit
a prank, cries out that a wolf is attacking
his flock even though in reality no such thing
is happening.
The villagers come armed to eliminate the threat
to the shepherd boy's flock and are enraged at having
been summoned for naught.
After a few times of this, they cease
to take the shepherd boy's cries seriously.
</p>

<p>
It is after the villagers have ceased to heed
the shepherd boy's cries that a wolf finally
shows up in reality.
Upon detecting the wolf, the shepherd boy
cries out to the villagers for help - but when
they hear his cries, their prior experience
with him causes them to assume that he is
merely playing again the same prank that he
had played multiple times before.
As a result, the wolf is left unchecked to
devour the shepherd boy's entire flock
and, according to some versions, also the
shepherd boy himself.
</p>

<h4>Precautions</h4>

<p>
The first thing to do to avoid committing the
Crying Wolf malconduct is to make sure that
you have a solid understanding of the meaning
of any fallacy or malconduct that you accuse
someone of.
Be sure that all of the criteria of the
impropriety in question are met before you
levy the accusation.
</p>

<p>
Remember that logic and reason are not subjective.
You are looking for something that is
very clear cut at meeting all criteria of the
impropriety in question.
If it merely is something that can possibly
be construed as meeting all criteria,
then there is a good chance that you're
unconsciously fishing to discredit something
because it is inconvenient,
not because of an actual fallacy or malconduct.
</p>

<p>
Also, be aware that all of us,
you included, harbor within us an
inclination to discredit actions and
arguments that are inconvenient to
us or to our agenda
whether they deserve such discrediting
or not.
Examine your motives to be certain that
such a bias isn't behind the accusation
that you're considering.
Bear in mind that if necessary, the need
for such self-examination can be valid
grounds for a processing pause request.
</p>


<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
