<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Civility Malconduct</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Civility Malconduct</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--mal.xhtml">Malconducts</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
The Civility Malconduct is when a rule of social
etiquette or some other standard of civility is
enforced at the expense of the integrity of the
discourse itself.
</p>

<p>
<span class = "scemp">This malconduct does not apply to all enforcement
of standards of decorum.</span> It merely applies to
cases in which such enforcement is done at the expense
of the integrity to discourse itself or with
disregard as to whether or not it could obstruct
discourse.
Politeness and civility are both good things.
They merely should not be prioritized over
integrity of discourse.
</p>

<p>
This malconduct applies whether the enforcement is
done by means of administrative authority, peer pressure,
or any other means of enforcement.
</p>

<h4>Some forms of this malconduct</h4>

<p>
One clear form of this malconduct is if
a group, when formulating and/or enforcing
a rule against personal attacks, fails
to provide an exception in the case of
personal attacks that are logically
relevant to the discussion at hand.
</p>

<p>
Other forms of this malconduct may be
a little more complex and far more nuanced
than the formentioned form.
</p>

<p>
Some forms of this malconduct are as follows:
</p>

<ul>
<li>The <a href = "mal-tone_policing_malconduct.xhtml">Tone Policing Malconduct</a></li>
</ul>

<h4>Razors Needed</h4>

<p>
The fine-points of this malconduct have not yet
been worked out - and it may, in the end, even
turn out to be a category of malconducts rather
than a singular malconduct.
</p>


<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
