<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Exhausting Repetition Malconduct</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Exhausting Repetition Malconduct</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--mal.xhtml">Malconducts</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
The Exhausting Repetition Malconduct
is when a flawed argument or group of flawed
arguments is brought forth with sufficient
frequency that the effort to rebut them
in kind would exert an undue strain on
those doing the rebutting.
Even though the flawed arguments can
all be successfully rebutted, the effort
to do so with excessive frequency results
in exhaustion.
This can have a number of possible problematic
end results.
</p>

<div class = "bullet">
Sometimes this exhaustion can even get
to the point of causing
the ones rebutting the flawed arguments
to give up, thereby rendering the illusion that
the flawed arguments have sufficed as proof.
</div>

<div class = "bullet">
The effort to rebut the repetitions of
the flawed arguments can divert effort that
is needed for other discussions.
</div>

<div class = "bullet">
When this malconduct is committed outside of
formal or otherwise formally designated meetings
of discourse, it can prevent the target of the
malconduct from being able to fully get on
with zir life by putting strain on zim to
interrupt zir life for the purpose of
re-address flawed arguments under the threat
of appearing unreasonable should zie decline
to do so.
</div>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<p>
It is important to avoid falsely
flagging this malconduct as doing so could
be a pretext to legitimizing
the <a href = "mal-homework_malconduct.xhtml">Homework Malconduct</a>.
</p>

<h5>On Substantial Difference</h5>

<p>
The first question to ask
is whether or not the argument being presently brought
up is substantially different from the one that has
already been brought up with sufficient frequency
as to warrant suspicion of the Exhausting Repetition Malconduct.
If it is promptly admitted that there is no substantial
difference, then it will be concluded that this was a minor
instance of this malconduct. (Though it should be noted -
repeated minor instances of malconduct do add up collectively.)
</p>

<p>
If the assertion is made, however, that the new argument is
indeed substantially different from the previously addressed one,
then that claim needs to be investigated.
If the claim that the new argument is indeed substantially
different turns out to be correct,
then the Exhausting Repetition Malconduct has not
been used in this instance.
</p>

<p>
On the other hand, if this investigation proceeds and
finds that the new argument lacks substantial distinction
from the previous argument,
then the incident will be found to indeed be an instance
of this malconduct - and further more, an instance
of significantly greater severity than would have been had the
perpetrated admitted upfront that the new argument lacked
substantial difference from the old.
</p>

<h5>On Frequency of the Argument</h5>

<p>
For the previous razor to even be relevant, the argument
in question must have been addressed previously with
sufficient frequency to warrant suspicion of this malconduct.
This criterion is easiest to establish if the argument
in question has been previously raised in this same
conversation.
Only with great trepidation should it be raised otherwise.
</p>

<h4>Other Similar Malconducts</h4>

<p>
This malconduct is not to be confused with the
Salty Repetition Malconduct
in which it is not an argument that is repeatedly
brought up, but rather, an assertion that has
been repeatedly debunked is raised with excessive
frequency and/or in patterns that are disruptive
to discourse in general.
Originally, it was thought that this was a form
of this same malconduct - but during the development
of the razors for the Exhausting Repetition Malconduct,
it became clear that the Salty Repetition Malconduct
is a separate malconduct.
</p>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
