<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Appeal to Laity Malconduct</title>
<link href="../Styles/itempage.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3 id = "top_of_page">Appeal to Laity Malconduct</h3>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "gnr--mal.xhtml">Malconducts</a></div>


<h4>Basic Description</h4>

<p>
The Appeal to Laity Malconduct is when an assertion is presented
for the judgement of unqualified masses
or for the judgement of some other unqualified yet influential party
instead of being submitted to the review of those
who are qualified to make a competent assessment of the
assertion,
or worse, upon having been rejected by the consensus
of those who are actually qualified to assess the assertion.
</p>

<p>
Typically, the unqualifed arbiter that this malconduct
is directed at is the general public -- however,
the definition of this malconduct does not require that
it be the general public.
</p>

<p>
Typically, those committing this malconduct claim
that the fair and equitable solution to a dispute
is to allow the public to decide on the matter.
However, that claim is deceptive.
In reality, this malconduct has the effect of putting
claims that have not been tested by relevant experts
(or worse, have failed such tests) on the same level
as claims that have been exhaustively tested and validated
to the point that the overwhelming consensus of qualified
experts accept the claim.
</p>

<h4>Notable Examples</h4>

<p>
The most notable example of this malconduct
is the collection of efforts by proponents of Intelligent Design
to have their notion of natural history
taught in schools alongside the Theory
of Evolution as an "alternative theory" -
even though relevant experts overwhelmingly
conclude that their ideas lack the criteria needed
to even properly qualify as a hypothesis.
</p>

<h4>Razors</h4>

<div class = "rzstep">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 1: START HERE
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Ask yourself whether or not the party to whom
the evidence is presented is equipped (intellectually
and otherwise) to properly and objectively
analyze the evidence and/or argument being
presented.
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
You are then in the clear.
This malconduct has not been committed - nor
has any other fallacy or malconduct been
committed on this count.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
<a href = "#ts01s02">Proceed to Step 2.</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class = "rzstep" id = "ts01s02">
<div class = "rzs_head">
Step 2
</div>
<div class = "rzs_body">
Does there exist an authoritative body that has the
necessary qualifications to evaluate the
evidence and/or argument provided?
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "yes"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Yes - this malconduct has been committed or is being committed on this count.
Follow proper corrective measures.
</div>
</div>
<div class = "rzs_ans">
<div class = "rzs_if">
If the answer is "no"
</div>
<div class = "rzs_then">
Technically, this count isn't an instance of this malconduct.
However, the party to which the evidence and/or argument
is presented, lacking the qualifications, should refrain
from coming to any conclusion.
</div>
</div>
</div>

<p>
Granted - this algorithm raises the question at times
as to whether or not a specific party has the
necessary qualifications.
Eventually, a section will be added to this compendium
to address that.
</p>

<h4>Recommended Corrective Measures</h4>

<p>
If you are the party to whom an Appeal to Laity is being
directed, or a member of that party,
the correct response is to call out the malconduct
and explain who the assertion ought to be presented to.
If your idea of who the assertion ought to be presented to
is specific, then state it specifically - however,
if you only have a very vague idea who the assertion
ought to be presented to, then at least state that.
</p>

<p>
You should never make an assessment on an assertion that
you are not qualified to assess - and you should similarly
discourage others from making such unqualified assessments.
</p>

<p>
If you are the gatekeeper of a medium that one is
attempting to use as the vehicle of an Appeal to Laity,
you also should direct the one attempting to use
your medium to instead direct their assertion to
the proper body of experts.
</p>

<div class = "navbar"><a href = "#top_of_page">Beginning of Entry</a></div>

</body>
</html>
